6c Binary analysis: Added Angr for iOS (#1521)
OWASP/owasp-mstg: Document/0x06c-Reverse-Engineering-and-Tampering.md

 21324 ms     | -[NSURLRequest initWithURL:0x106388b00 cachePolicy:0x0 timeoutInterval:0x106388b80
```

### Binary Analysis

> An introduction to binary analysis using binary analysis framework has already been discussed in [Dynamic Analysis](0x05c-reverse-engineering-and-tampering#dynamic-analysis "Dynamic analysis") section for Android. It is recommended before moving forward, to revisit and refresh the concepts. 

Reviewer: Let's try to use an active voice as much as we can:
```suggestion
An introduction to binary analysis using binary analysis framework has already been discussed in [Dynamic Analysis](0x05c-reverse-engineering-and-tampering#dynamic-analysis "Dynamic analysis") section for Android. We recommend you to revisit this section and refresh the concepts on this subject.
```

Author: My bad, trying to minimize these mistakes.

> For Android, we used Angr's symbolic execution engine to solve a challenge. In this section, we will revisit the Angr binary analysis framework to analyze the [UnCrackable Level 1 crackme app](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Crackmes/iOS/Level_01/UnCrackable_Level1.ipa "UnCrackable Level 1 iOS App") but instead of symbolic execution we will use its concrete execution (or dynamic execution) features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section, we will use the Angr binary analysis framework to analyze the [UnCrackable Level 1 crackme app](https://github.com/OWASP/owasp-mstg/blob/master/Crackmes/iOS/Level_01/UnCrackable_Level1.ipa "UnCrackable Level 1 iOS App") but instead of simply symbolic execution (as we did on Android) we will use its concrete execution (or dynamic execution) features.
```

Author: Should be "simple" instead of "simply" ?

#### Angr

Angr is a very versatile tool, providing multiple techniques to facilitate binary analysis, while supporting various file formats and hardware instructions sets.

> The Mach-O backend in Angr is not well-supported, but it works perfectly fine for our case.

> While manual analyzing the code in the [Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "reviewing disassembled native code")" section, we reached a point where performing further manual analysis was cumbersome. The function at offset `0x1000080d4` was identified as the final target which contains the secret string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While manual analyzing the code in the [Reviewing Disassembled Native Code](#reviewing-disassembled-native-code "Reviewing Disassembled Native Code")" section, we reached a point where performing further manual analysis was cumbersome. The function at offset `0x1000080d4` was identified as the final target which contains the secret string.
```

> If we revisit that function, we can see it involves multiple sub-function calls and interestingly none of these functions have dependency on other library calls or system calls. In a nutshell, these functions are self contained and can be executed without needing any other platform specific libraries. This is a perfect case to use Angr's concrete execution engine. Follow the steps below to solve this challenge using Angr:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we revisit that function, we can see that it involves multiple sub-function calls and interestingly none of these functions have any dependencies on other library calls or system calls. This is a perfect case to use Angr's concrete execution engine. Follow the steps below to solve this challenge:
```

> - Get the ARM64 version of the binary using `lipo` tool (ARMv7 can be used as well).

Reviewer 2: As it is the name of the tool we don't use backticks, if you refer to the command it would include backticks (e.g. run `lipo <binary>` to ...).
```suggestion
- Get the ARM64 version of the binary using lipo tool (ARMv7 can be used as well).
```

> - Create an Angr `project` by loading the above binary

Author: I am confused on this one. For code dont we use backticks? Project is an API in angr, shouldn't we use backticks ?

> - Create an Angr `project` by loading the above binary

Reviewer 2: I see, you're right. I've edited the Suggestion. Thanks for the remark :)

> - Create an Angr `project` by loading the above binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create an Angr `Project` by loading the above binary.
```

- Get a `callable` by passing the address of the function to be executed. From Angr documentation, "A Callable is a representation of a function in the binary that can be interacted with like a native python function."
- Pass the above `callable` object to the concrete execution engine, which in this case is `claripy.backends.concrete`.

> - Access the memory and extract the string from the pointer returned by the function from above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Access the memory and extract the string from the pointer returned by the above function.
```

```python
import angr
import claripy

def solve():

    # Load the binary by creating angr project.
    project = angr.Project('uncrackable.arm64')

    # Pass the address of the function to the callable
    func = project.factory.callable(0x1000080d4)

>     ptr_secret_string = claripy.backends.concrete.convert(func()).value     # get the return value of the function

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    # Get the return value of the function
    ptr_secret_string = claripy.backends.concrete.convert(func()).value
```

    print("Address of the pointer to the secret string: " + hex(ptr_secret_string))

    # Extract the value from the pointer to the secret string
    secret_string = func.result_state.mem[ptr_secret_string].string.concrete

>     print("Secret String: " +  secret_string)

Reviewer 2: I got an error because of this. I've added it as an f-string (python3)
```suggestion
    print(f"Secret String: {secret_string}")
```

solve()
```

Above, Angr executed an ARM64 code in a controlled execution environment provided by one of its concrete execution engines. Eventually the result is easily accessed from the memory as if the program is executed on a real device. This case is a good example where binary analysis frameworks empower us to perform a comprehensive analysis of the binary, even in the absence of a specialized device needed to run that binary.

> 

Reviewer 2: Very nice!! :D

> Above, Angr executed an ARM64 code in a controlled execution environment provided by one of its concrete execution engines. Eventually the result is easily accessed from the memory as if the program is executed on a real device. This case is a good example where binary analysis frameworks empower us to perform a comprehensive analysis of the binary, even in the absence of a specialized device needed to run that binary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Above, Angr executed an ARM64 code in an execution environment provided by one of its concrete execution engines. The result is accessed from the memory as if the program is executed on a real device. This case is a good example where binary analysis frameworks enable us to perform a comprehensive analysis of a binary, even in the absence of specialized devices needed to run it.
```
